Final Deliverable 🎉
For your final deliverable, you'll put together a single public GitHub repository that pulls your whole
project together in one place: your curated notebook(s), your data processing scripts, and a README that
welcomes someone new to your project and shows them around. ✨
Why this matters beyond the class 💼
Here's something I really want you to think about as you're working on this: this repo can be a sample of
your work that you send to recruiters and hiring managers. When someone asks "do you have a
project you can share?" during a job search, internship application, or grad school conversation — this is
exactly the kind of thing they're hoping to see. A clean, public GitHub repo with a well-told story and a
thoughtful README is useful career infrastructure. 🌟
So it's worth putting real care into this one. The extra time you spend tightening up the README and
curating the notebook is an investment in yourself — this repo can keep working for you long after the
semester ends. 🌱
The notebook
Think of your main notebook as the place where you get to tell the story of your project 📖. At a
minimum, it should walk us through your motivation, the question you set out to answer, your results, and
your analysis. The key word here is curated — we're not looking for every experiment, false start, and
dead-end you ran into along the way (and a shaggy, everything-included notebook will actually cost you
points!). What we want is the clean, coherent version: your best analysis, your clearest findings, your real
conclusions. 🌟
Please use plenty of markdown/text cells to guide us through! Don't make us infer what's happening from
the code alone. Hold our hand a little — we're coming to this without all the context you've built up over
the semester. 🤝
Two important logistics notes: 📌
1. Your final deliverable notebook should be named main_notebook.ipynb — this is the one
we'll focus on for grading, so please use exactly that filename so we know where to look. Then
point us to it in your README too (a line like "👉 Start here: main_notebook.ipynb " near
the top is perfect).
2. Please also include your Project Checkpoint 1 and Checkpoint 2 notebooks in the repo.
These show the progression of your work over the semester, which is a lovely story to be able to
tell. Something like checkpoint_1.ipynb and checkpoint_2.ipynb works great — feel
free to tuck them into a checkpoints/ folder if you'd like to keep things tidy. 🗂
The repository
Your repo should be public on GitHub and organized so that someone landing on it fresh could
understand what you did and re-run it. To give you a feel for what a nice, well-structured repo looks like,
take a peek at these two examples:
🔗 https://github.com/mariateleki/dres
🔗 https://github.com/mariateleki/zscore
A quick heads up, though: you don't need everything those repos have! 🌿 Those are published research
artifacts with a lot of extra polish layered on top. You're turning in a semester project, and the bar is scoped
accordingly. Here's the breakdown so you know exactly what's in and what's out:
What you'll want to include: ✅
A clear, welcoming README (see below for what to put in it)
Your final curated notebook, named main_notebook.ipynb and pointed to from the README
Your Checkpoint 1 and Checkpoint 2 notebooks (e.g., checkpoint_1.ipynb and
checkpoint_2.ipynb , optionally inside a checkpoints/ folder)
Any supporting notebooks or your data processing / preprocessing scripts — the code that turned raw
data into whatever your main notebook uses
Any helper modules or utility code your notebooks import
An exported requirements.txt from Colab for main_notebook.ipynb (see below for how)
🌿
A sensible folder layout (something like notebooks/ , checkpoints/ , src/ or scripts/ ,
data/ with instructions if the data is too big to commit, assets/ for figures)
A .gitignore so stray files don't sneak in
What you can totally skip — don't stress about these! 🌸
Unit tests or a tests/ folder
A pip-installable package with pyproject.toml / setup.py
Hydra configs or experiment sweep infrastructure
A CONTRIBUTING section
A formal published-paper-style citation block
A license file (optional — feel free to add one if you'd like, but it's not required)
Exporting your environment from Colab 🌿
Since you're all working in Colab, here's the easiest way to capture your environment. Run this in a cell at
the bottom of main_notebook.ipynb (or in a fresh cell — your call), then download the file and
commit it to your repo:
!pip freeze > requirements.txt
from google.colab import files
files.download('requirements.txt')
That gives you a requirements.txt with every package + version that was loaded in your Colab
session. Pop it at the root of the repo so it's easy to find! 🌱
Also jot down your Python version in the README so we know which version of Colab you were using
— you can grab it from Colab with:
!python --version
What goes in your README
Your README is the front door to your project, so make it a nice one! 🏡 Remember, this is the first
thing a recruiter or hiring manager will see too. Please include:
1. Project title and a one-paragraph overview — what's this project about and why should someone
care?
2. A pointer to your main notebook — tell us exactly which file is the one to read (e.g., "👉 The main
deliverable is main_notebook.ipynb ")
3. Your research questions — what you set out to answer
4. A link to your project video — put it somewhere easy to spot, like right near the top. We really want
to make sure we see it! 🎥
5. Data section — what dataset(s) you used, where to get them, and any preprocessing steps
6. How to reproduce your work — mention that this was built in Colab, point to your
requirements.txt , and give the order to run scripts/notebooks in
7. Key dependencies and versions — a short list of the most important packages you used with their
versions (e.g., python 3.11 , pandas 2.2.0 , scikit-learn 1.4.1 , torch 2.2.0 ). You
don't need to list every package — just the big ones someone would want to know about at a glance.
The full list lives in your requirements.txt ! 🌱
8. Repo structure — a short tree showing what lives where, so we can navigate easily (including where
to find the checkpoint notebooks and your requirements file!)
9. Results summary — a couple of sentences or a headline figure giving us the big takeaway (your full
analysis belongs in the notebook) ✨
Submission
Submit the URL to your public GitHub repo. One quick favor: before you submit, pop open an incognito
window and make sure the repo actually loads without you being logged in — that confirms it's truly
public and saves everyone a headache later. 🙌
You've got this — we can't wait to see what you've built!